---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "proxmox_virtual_machines Data Source - terraform-provider-proxmox"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# proxmox_virtual_machines (Data Source)





<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `filters` (Attributes List) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--filters))

### Read-Only

- `virtual_machines` (Attributes Set) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--virtual_machines))

<a id="nestedatt--filters"></a>
### Nested Schema for `filters`

Required:

- `name` (String) The name of the attribute to filter on.
- `values` (List of String) The value(s) to be used in the filter.


<a id="nestedatt--virtual_machines"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_machines`

Optional:

- `agent` (Attributes) The agent configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--virtual_machines--agent))
- `bios` (String) The BIOS type.
- `cloud_init` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--virtual_machines--cloud_init))
- `cpu` (Attributes) The CPU configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--virtual_machines--cpu))
- `description` (String) The CPU description.
- `keyboard_layout` (String) The keyboard layout.
- `machine_type` (String) The machine type.
- `name` (String) The name of the virtual machine.
- `resource_pool` (String) The resource pool the virtual machine is in.
- `start_on_node_boot` (Boolean) Whether to start the virtual machine on node boot.
- `tags` (Set of String) The tags of the virtual machine.
- `type` (String) The operating system type.

Read-Only:

- `disks` (Attributes Set) The terrafrom generated disks attached to the VM. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--virtual_machines--disks))
- `id` (Number) The identifier of the virtual machine.
- `kvm_arguments` (String) The arguments to pass to KVM.
- `memory` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--virtual_machines--memory))
- `network_interfaces` (Attributes Set) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--virtual_machines--network_interfaces))
- `node` (String) The node to create the virtual machine on.
- `pci_devices` (Attributes Set) PCI devices passed through to the VM. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--virtual_machines--pci_devices))

<a id="nestedatt--virtual_machines--agent"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_machines.agent`

Optional:

- `enabled` (Boolean) Whether the agent is enabled.
- `type` (String) The guest agent type.
- `use_fstrim` (Boolean) Whether to use fstrim.


<a id="nestedatt--virtual_machines--cloud_init"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_machines.cloud_init`

Optional:

- `dns` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--virtual_machines--cloud_init--dns))
- `ip` (Attributes Set) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--virtual_machines--cloud_init--ip))
- `user` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--virtual_machines--cloud_init--user))

<a id="nestedatt--virtual_machines--cloud_init--dns"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_machines.cloud_init.dns`

Optional:

- `domain` (String) The domain to use for the machine.
- `nameserver` (String) The nameserver to use for the machine.


<a id="nestedatt--virtual_machines--cloud_init--ip"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_machines.cloud_init.ip`

Optional:

- `position` (Number) The position of the network interface in the VM as an int. Used to determine the interface name (net0, net1, etc).
- `v4` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--virtual_machines--cloud_init--ip--v4))
- `v6` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--virtual_machines--cloud_init--ip--v6))

<a id="nestedatt--virtual_machines--cloud_init--ip--v4"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_machines.cloud_init.ip.v6`

Optional:

- `address` (String) The IP address to use for the machine.
- `dhcp` (Boolean) Whether to use DHCP to get the IP address.
- `gateway` (String) The gateway to use for the machine.
- `netmask` (String) The IP address netmask to use for the machine.


<a id="nestedatt--virtual_machines--cloud_init--ip--v6"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_machines.cloud_init.ip.v6`

Optional:

- `address` (String) The IP address to use for the machine.
- `dhcp` (Boolean) Whether to use DHCP to get the IP address.
- `gateway` (String) The gateway to use for the machine.
- `netmask` (String) The IP address netmask to use for the machine.



<a id="nestedatt--virtual_machines--cloud_init--user"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_machines.cloud_init.user`

Optional:

- `name` (String) The name of the user.
- `password` (String) The password of the user.
- `public_keys` (List of String) The public ssh keys of the user.



<a id="nestedatt--virtual_machines--cpu"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_machines.cpu`

Optional:

- `architecture` (String) The CPU architecture.
- `cores` (Number) The number of CPU cores.
- `cpu_units` (Number) The CPU units.
- `emulated_type` (String) The emulated CPU type.
- `sockets` (Number) The number of CPU sockets.


<a id="nestedatt--virtual_machines--disks"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_machines.disks`

Optional:

- `discard` (Boolean) Whether the disk has discard enabled.
- `file_format` (String) The file format of the disk.
- `speed_limits` (Attributes) The speed limits of the disk. If not set, no speed limitations are applied. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--virtual_machines--disks--speed_limits))
- `ssd_emulation` (Boolean) Whether to use SSD emulation. conflicts with virtio disk type.
- `use_iothread` (Boolean) Whether to use an iothread for the disk.

Read-Only:

- `interface_type` (String) The type of the disk.
- `position` (Number) The position of the disk. (0, 1, 2, etc.) This is combined with the `interface_type` to determine the disk name.
- `size` (Number) The size of the disk in GiB.
- `storage` (String) The storage the disk is on.

<a id="nestedatt--virtual_machines--disks--speed_limits"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_machines.disks.speed_limits`

Optional:

- `read` (Number) The read speed limit in bytes per second.
- `read_burstable` (Number) The read burstable speed limit in bytes per second.
- `write` (Number) The write speed limit in bytes per second.
- `write_burstable` (Number) The write burstable speed limit in bytes per second.



<a id="nestedatt--virtual_machines--memory"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_machines.memory`

Optional:

- `dedicated` (Number) The size of the memory in MB.
- `floating` (Number) The floating memory in MB.
- `shared` (Number) The shared memory in MB.


<a id="nestedatt--virtual_machines--network_interfaces"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_machines.network_interfaces`

Optional:

- `enabled` (Boolean) Whether the network interface is enabled.
- `mac_address` (String) The MAC address of the network interface.
- `model` (String) The model of the network interface.
- `mtu` (Number) The MTU of the network interface. Only valid for virtio.
- `rate_limit` (Number) The rate limit of the network interface in megabytes per second.
- `use_firewall` (Boolean) Whether the firewall for the network interface is enabled.
- `vlan` (Number) The VLAN tag of the network interface.

Read-Only:

- `bridge` (String) The bridge the network interface is on.
- `position` (Number) The position of the network interface in the VM as an int. Used to determine the interface name (net0, net1, etc).


<a id="nestedatt--virtual_machines--pci_devices"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_machines.pci_devices`

Optional:

- `mdev` (String) The mediated device name.
- `pcie` (Boolean) Whether the PCI device is PCIe.
- `primary_gpu` (Boolean) Whether the PCI device is the primary GPU.
- `rom_file` (String) The relative path to the ROM for the device.
- `rombar` (Boolean) Make the firmware room visible to the VM.

Read-Only:

- `id` (String) The device ID of the PCI device.
- `name` (String) The device name of the PCI device.


